+++
title = "Command line 104"
date = "2022-01-12T07:00:35+01:00"
author = "Lp1"
authorTwitter = "lp1dev" #do not include @
cover = "/cli101.png"
tags = ["meta", "hacking", "courses","terminal","command-line"]
keywords = ["hack", "courses","command-line"]
description = "Command line for beginners"
showFullContent = false
+++

<script type="text/javascript">
    function verify(id) {
        const answers = [
            '-rw-r-----',
        ]
        let input = document.querySelector('#chall'+id)
        if (input.value.trim() == answers[id]) {
            alert('Congratulations! You finished the challenge '+id)
            input.disabled = true;
        } else {
            alert('It seems your answer is invalid. Try again!')
        }
    }
</script>


# Parameters âš™ï¸

Parameters are options you can add to your commands in order to change their behaviour.

For instance, when you type `ls -a`,
"-a" is a parameter that you add to the command `ls`. 

When you type `cat challenge_0.txt`, "challenge_0.txt" is a parameter that you add to the command `cat`.

You can add an infinite number of parameters depending on the ones your script/program supports.

> **Note** : Anything written **after** a command is a *parameter*. Parameters are separated by a space.

---

# Shortcuts and wildcards ðŸƒ

## History

In a Linux shell, you have multiple syntaxes and keyboard shortcuts to avoid typing long commands and doing the same thing twice.

For instance if you want to run the same command again, **Key Up** will go through your history and display the last command-lines you entered.

> **Note** : The command `history` will also print the whole command-line history for your shell session.

## Autocompletion

**Tab** will **autocomplete** files and directories names, for instance if you type :

```bash
$> ls chall
```

In your home directory and then press **Tab**, your terminal will automatically replace "chall" with "challenges".

In case of ambiguity, your shell will not automatically be able to autocomplete your commands, in that case, *nothing will be displayed* when you press **Tab**. 

Pressing **Tab** twice in that situation will print the ambiguous file or directory names.

```bash
$> ls c # Press Tab twice and observe what is printed
```

## Wildcards 

A wildcard is a "magic" character that means *everything*.

In a Linux shell, a wildcard is represented by the **\*** character, if you type it in your shell, it will be replaced before executing your command by every (non-hidden) files and directories in the current directory.

You can actually test this behaviour in your terminal using the following commands :

```bash
$> echo * # Will print every file and directory name
$> cat * # Will cat every file in the local directory
```

Wildcards can also be used in conjuction with other characters, at the start or the end of any character string.

```bash
$> echo chall*
$> echo *enge
```

---

# Permissions

In a Linux filesystem, every file has associated permissions. 

Permissions define which actions users or groups of users can do regarding those files and directories.

## Users 

If you can enter commands on a computer, you are logged in as a **user**.

The command `whoami` will print your username, this is your identity on the machine.

The `$USER` environment variable also contains your username, you can display its value with `echo $USER`.

Your Linux system does not always uses usernames in order to identify users, each user have a numeric ID called a **UID**. You can also print your UID using `echo $UID`.

## Groups

To make permissions management easier, users are divided in **groups**.

By default on Linux, whenever a user is created, it is part of its own, single-member group whose name is its own. 

On [hack.courses](https://hack.courses), your group should be "nointernet", you can display the groups you are part of using the command `groups`.

## Read, write, execute

Do you remember the `ls -l` listing we reviewed earlier? Let's look at it again.

```bash
$> ls -l challenges/command_line_101/
total 28
drwxrwxr-x    3 root     root          4096 Jan 11 21:59 .
drwxr-xr-x    3 root     root          4096 Jan 11 21:59 ..
-rw-rw-r--    1 root     root            96 Jan 11 21:59 .challenge_4
-rw-rw-r--    1 root     root           276 Jan 11 21:59 challenge5.sh
-rw-rw-r--    1 root     root           111 Jan  9 15:44 challenge_0.txt
-rw-rw-r--    1 root     root            77 Jan  9 20:57 challenge_1.txt
drwxrwxr-x    3 root     root          4096 Jan 11 21:58 challenge_2
```

It's finally time to explain what all of this means, let's start by investigating in details the first column of this list, the one with characters like `-rw-rw-r--`.

As I told you earlier, the first character can be either *-* (which represents an empty space) or *d* for "directory".

Then, you have three sequences of "rwx", each character of each sequence can also be equal to *-*.

Those sequences describe the permissions associated to the file or directory :

- **r** - is for **read**
- **w** - is for **write**
- **x** - is for **execute**

Following this logic, `r--` means "read permissions only", `rw-` means "read/write permissions only, and `rwx` means read+write+execute permissions!

Why three consecutive sequences then? 

The first sequence is for the **user** who owns the file/directory, the second one is for the **group** and the third one is for **everyone else**. 

Finally, the first username in the list (column 3) is the **user** who owns the file and the second one is the **group** the file belongs to!

---

# Hands-on ðŸ¤œ!

If you're new to this, that might be a lot of information to handle, let's take a break with a few exercices.

## Challenge 6

For this exercice, let's do something different! This time, you won't have to look for a flag. 

I will give you specific information describing a file which you will have to translate into a `drwxr-xr-x` line just like `ls -l` would display.

- We are talking about a file, not a directory
- The owner of the file can read and write the file
- The group who owns the file can read it
- Anyone else can not do *anything* with the file

Enter your answer in the prompt below (web version only) :

<div style="display:flex">
    <input style="width:40rem" type="text" id="chall0" placeholder="Example : drwxrw-rw-"/><button onclick="verify(0)">Verify</button>
</div>

---

# You finished this class!

Congrats on your completion of this first class! I hope you enjoyed it!

Was it too fast? Too slow? Too hard? Too easy? I'd love to [read your feedback](https://forms.gle/gzvPTPCDv27uwve88)!

## Additional Resources

- https://devhints.io/bash
- https://cheatography.com/davechild/cheat-sheets/linux-command-line/
- https://www.guru99.com/linux-commands-cheat-sheet.html

<!-- # Additional Resources 


<!-- 

105

# Chown/Chmod 

# grep

# 

-->