+++
title = "Command line 202"
date = "2022-01-11T19:00:35+01:00"
author = "Lp1"
authorTwitter = "lp1dev" #do not include @
cover = "/cli201.png"
tags = ["meta", "hacking", "courses","terminal","command-line"]
keywords = ["hack", "courses","command-line"]
description = "Command line for beginners"
showFullContent = false
+++

<script type="text/javascript">
    function verify(id) {
        const answers = [
            'flag{b0138935d232349fcea0aede02ab9cdd96938e55}',
        ]
        let input = document.querySelector('#chall'+id)
        if (input.value.trim() == answers[id]) {
            alert('Congratulations! You finished this challenge')
            input.disabled = true;
        } else {
            alert('It seems your answer is invalid. Try again!')
        }
    }
</script>


# Pipes

You might have heard about or have seen **pipes** using the `|` character, they are very frequently used in Linux command-line and can become an essential tool once you master them.

If you have a look at the manual pages related to pipes using `man pipe`, the definition of a pipe starts with the following sentence :

```
pipe() creates a pipe, a unidirectional data channel that can be used
       for interprocess communication.
```

We can infer from it that a pipe :

- Is a data channel
- Can be used to communicate data from a process to another

To give you a definition that better fits the concepts we have discussed in the previous class : a **pipe** is **a character** whose usage redirects the **standard output** of a first command part to the **standard input** of a second one. 

For instance, if you wanted to redirect the **standard output** of `whoami` to `rev`, you would type :

`whoami | rev`

> **New command** : `rev` is like cat, except it reads the data in a reversed way. Try it with `rev /etc/passwd` or any other file available on hack.courses.

Pipes can be chained without limitations, for instance the following command line is valid :

`cat /etc/passwd | grep gu3st | rev`

And will `cat /etc/passwd`, then send all of the file content written to */dev/stdout* to `grep` which fill filter only the lines containing `gu3st` and then `reverse` the output with `rev`.



---

# Redirections

Let's tackle another important concept in Linux shells : **redirections**.

They are represented by the characters `>` and `<` for the *right* and *left* redirection or *output* and *input* redirection.

## Right redirection (output redirection)

What is meant by *right redirection* or *output redirection* is a redirection of a process **standard output** to a file (which can be a special file or a regular file).

For instance on a Linux system you could write random data to an actual file named `random_data` using */dev/urandom* with the following command :

`cat /dev/urandom > random_data`

> **Note** : You do not have the permissions to create new files on hack.courses, this command will not work unless you have your own *user account*.

You could also use right redirections to hide a command's standard output, like :

`ls / > /dev/null`

Which would redirect all of the content written by `ls /` on the **standard output** to `/dev/null`.

> **Hands-on** : A good example of this is the `ping` utility, try with `ping 127.0.0.1 > /dev/null`. Do you understand which part of the original ping command is written on the standard output? Which one is written on the error output?

## Left redirection (input redirection)

Input redirection, using the `<` operator redirects a file's contents to a command's **standard input**.

You can replace user input, entered using a keyboard with the contents of a *special* or *regular* file.

As an example, if we were to sort the contents of a given *customers.txt* we could use a left redirection like :

```bash
sort < customers.txt
```

The *customers.txt* will be read by the command interpreter, which will then write all of its contents as `sort`'s **standard input**.

> **Note** : There also is another output redirection you might encounter, using *two angular brackets* `>>`. This one will **add additional data** after the end of a file instead of totally **replacing its contents** like `>` does.

---

# Hands-On 🤜!

You probably miss actually messing around with a terminal by yourself after all of this! Let's get our hands dirty and search for more *flags* by finishing *challenges*.

If you need a reminder about the *flags* system, have a look at [this section of CLI 101](http://doc.hack.courses/posts/command_line_101/101/#hands-on-).


## Challenge 0

This first challenge's flag will be given to you by a *script*, you [remember how to run a shell script](../command_line_101/103.md), right?

Once you run this shell script, it gives you the flag... 
But wait, there's something wrong with it isn't it?

It seems the flag you're given has been *reversed*. Maybe you can do something about it using your new command-line skills?


<details>
  <summary>Hint 1</summary>

> **Hint** : This exercice can be done (not exclusively) using `rev` and a pipe.

</details>

<div style="display:flex">
    <input style="width:40rem" type="text" id="chall0" placeholder="Example : flag{abcdefgh0123456789}"/><button onclick="verify(0)">Verify</button>
</div>


<!-- flag{b0138935d232349fcea0aede02ab9cdd96938e55} -->

## Challenge 1



---


Whenever you're ready, move on to :

## [Command-line 202](../202)
