+++ 
title = "Command line 203"  
date = "2022-05-24T17:10:35+01:00"  
author = "Lp1"  
authorTwitter = "lp1dev" #do not include @  
cover = "/cli201.png"  
tags = ["meta", "hacking", "courses", "terminal", "command-line"]  
keywords = ["hack", "courses", "command-line"]  
description = "Command line for beginners"  
showFullContent = false
draft = true
+++

## Data and File Manipulation (head, tail, wc, grep, find)

Oh, there you are! I was waiting for you to come back from 202!

Now that you're here, we're going to talk about new Linux commands you might not know about yet. These commands allow the modification of files and data streams.

> **Note:** We are not going to discuss file creation or deletion in this class for technical reasons regarding the terminal on hack.courses, but it might be part of another future class. ;)

### head

Let's start with the command `head`. It seems appropriate to start with this specific one since it displays the start of a given file or data stream. By default, `head` will only display the first 10 lines of the contents passed to it as parameters.

You can try it using the following command:

```bash
$> head /etc/passwd
```

Output:
```bash
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/usr/bin/shell.sh
bin:x:1:1:bin:/bin:/sbin/nologin
daemon:x:2:2:daemon:/sbin:/sbin/nologin
adm:x:3:4:adm:/var/adm:/sbin/nologin
lp:x:4:7:lp:/var/spool/lpd:/sbin/nologin
sync:x:5:0:sync:/sbin:/bin/sync
shutdown:x:6:0:shutdown:/sbin:/sbin/shutdown
halt:x:7:0:halt:/sbin:/sbin/halt
mail:x:8:12:mail:/var/mail:/sbin/nologin
news:x:9:13:news:/usr/lib/news:/sbin/nologin
```

As you can see, only the first 10 lines of the `/etc/passwd` file are displayed. You can also specify the number of lines you want to print using the `-n` parameter. For instance, if you only want the first two lines of the same file:

```bash
$> head -n 2 /etc/passwd
```

### tail

Now let's talk about the `tail` command, which is the counterpart of `head`. Instead of displaying the beginning of a file, `tail` shows the last part of it. By default, it displays the last 10 lines of the given file or data stream.

Try it with the same file:

```bash
$> tail /etc/passwd
```

Output:
```bash
uuidd:x:100:101::/var/run/uuidd:/bin/false
dnsmasq:x:101:65534:dnsmasq,,,:/var/lib/misc:/bin/false
sshd:x:102:65534::/run/sshd:/usr/sbin/nologin
radvd:x:103:65534::/var/run/radvd:/bin/false
saned:x:104:113::/var/lib/saned:/usr/sbin/nologin
```

As with `head`, you can specify the number of lines to display with the `-n` option. For example, to show only the last three lines:

```bash
$> tail -n 3 /etc/passwd
```

### wc

The `wc` (word count) command is a versatile utility used to count the number of lines, words, and characters in a file. By default, `wc` will display these three statistics when you provide a file as an argument.

```bash
$> wc /etc/passwd
```

Output:
```bash
 45  123 3007 /etc/passwd
```

This output tells us there are 45 lines, 123 words, and 3007 characters in the `/etc/passwd` file. If you want to count only specific elements, you can use options like `-l` for lines, `-w` for words, and `-c` for characters. For example, to count only the number of lines:

```bash
$> wc -l /etc/passwd
```

### grep

`grep` is one of the most powerful and widely used commands for searching through text. It allows you to search for a specific pattern of characters within files or data streams.

For instance, if you want to find all the lines in the `/etc/passwd` file that contain the word "root":

```bash
$> grep "root" /etc/passwd
```

Output:
```bash
root:x:0:0:root:/root:/usr/bin/shell.sh
```

`grep` supports regular expressions, making it even more powerful for complex searches. You can also use the `-i` option to ignore case or `-v` to invert the match, showing lines that do not contain the specified pattern.

### find

The `find` command is used to search for files and directories within a directory hierarchy. It is extremely powerful and flexible, allowing you to locate files based on a variety of criteria such as name, size, modification date, and more.

For example, to find all files with the `.conf` extension in the `/etc` directory:

```bash
$> find /etc -name "*.conf"
```

This command will search through the `/etc` directory and its subdirectories for any files that end with `.conf`.

`find` can also execute commands on the files it finds using the `-exec` option. For instance, to delete all `.tmp` files in a directory:

```bash
$> find /path/to/directory -name "*.tmp" -exec rm {} \;
```

---

This should cover the basics of these essential Linux commands. Feel free to practice and explore these commands further to deepen your understanding!
